why friction is killing your website
conversion rates
[Music]
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com
and host the top 100 marketing podcast
business great show and if you haven't
done so yet check out my weekly email
i'm sharing actual website and marketing
tips useful podcasts free goodies
resources and more to kick off your week
with a bang
each and every monday you can sign up
over at business growth dot email
so many of us want our websites act as
our very best sales rep we want it to
convert as many great fit prospects
into sales leads for ourselves if we run
the business or our sales team to close
into new business and new sales revenue
so the chances are you're probably
investing in maybe different channels of
marketing maybe ads maybe you're doing
seo maybe doing social media
email marketing maybe you're doing
demand gen or something else to drive
these visitors to your site so you want
to convert as many as possible as we say
so
what you want to do is you want to stop
users stop visitors burning calories on
your site what do i mean by that we want
to make it as easy as possible we want
to remove all friction from our site so
people can get the job they want to done
super fast on your website whether that
is learning more about what you do
checking out your resources actually
make an inquiry like giving you a call
filling out a form booking time on a
rep's calendar
downloading a white paper we want to
make it as clear as possible for what
you do how you're gonna be able to help
and for people to access the info or
convert on your site so i'm gonna share
six ways to reduce that friction and
drive more conversions on your website
[Music]
so the first tip
is page speed making sure your website
loads nice and quickly as page speed can
be the silent killer of your website
conversion rate and it can frustrate
visitors if your website takes ages to
load meaning they're just going to get
bored of waiting for your site to load
and head to a competitor that gives them
a nice and quick experience so really
want to aim for one second or less as a
load speed time some ideas to improve
your website page speed can be things
like not having a ton of videos on your
page or maybe making the videos that you
do have as an image so when someone
clicks the image the image lend loads to
the videos that pop up
looking to have less plugins so if
you've got tons of plugins maybe you run
a wordpress site or similar and you've
got a bunch of plugins making sure you
only have the ones that you need keeping
your website up to date so if you're on
wordpress or a similar content
management system making sure your site
is up to date making sure it's running
clean code not having loads of
animations or what's called javascript
loads of floating banners and all that
good stuff which again can slow speed
down there's a great tool called google
page speed insights where you type in
your website url and you can get your
speed on mobile and desktop and you can
get a bunch of ways to improve that so
that is tip one
[Music]
tip two is to make sure your website
works seamlessly on all devices so on
mobile tablet and pc as we've said in
many past episodes responsive design
where your website merely adapts to the
devices opened on is no longer good
enough google actually has a ranking
factor that your website needs to work
well on mobile so making sure you have a
nice design for mobile screens as well
as larger desktop screens so no matter
what device your prospects open your
site on they can have a great experience
quickly access the info they need and
not have to zoom in pinch the screen
scroll around mess around to find what
they're looking for because that's just
a frustration it's making sure you
design your site for both mobile
possibly tablet as well as well as
desktop give people the very best
experience on your site no matter what
device they open it on
thirdly we've got your messaging and
your copy on your website
so i often go by the saying clarity is
king for your site i recommend that you
avoid using jargon on your website
unless it's words that your customers
use day in day out so try not to use
technical jargon that's going to confuse
people if it's not something your
customers are regularly saying to you on
sales calls emails etc as the old saying
goes if you confuse you lose so for
example with your website home page as
soon as someone lands on that homepage
they see that top hero that top banner
area they should know exactly what you
do
how it's going to help them and how to
learn more or how to get in touch you've
just got a few seconds to capture
people's valuable attention especially
if they're coming in cold from a google
search from a paid ad etc they want to
know the value you'll bring to the table
how it's going to help them how to learn
more or contact you so make it simple
likewise on your service pages on your
product pages your feature pages
leverage those key problems that people
actually care about fixing for each of
the value propositions then you can talk
more about features
how each is relevant to that product to
that offering and then you can back it
up with social proof that we'll talk
about in a bit and then make it nice and
easy for people to contact you so really
focus on nice and clear content
making sure you leverage problems then
go into benefits and features
and avoid jargon unless it is actually
words that your customers use regularly
on sales
[Music]
fourthly we've got leveraging faq so we
touched on this on your content so what
i recommend is on each of your main
service pages product pages etc
perhaps halfway through perhaps towards
the end you can have a faq section where
you make a list of five six seven ten
whatever it may be questions that you
often get asked around this particular
offering so you can meet up with your
sales team you can say guys what are the
questions we get we can week out
around this service or on this product
or on this offering they can give you a
bunch of information and then you can
answer those in detail so you can say
look this is how we we handle this this
is how we handle this objection you can
also leverage video so for example on
the web choice faqs on some of our
service pages i've actually got a video
that answers the exact question
typically taken from this business
growth podcast and it basically means
that you can sell save your sales team
time you can handle those objections
whilst people are actually on your
website reduce that friction and that
will actually help you get more
inquiries because people aren't
concerned people are at ease with their
mind because you've answered what they
want to know to take that next step to
convert
at five we've got proof of results so
i'm sure you've probably heard on sales
calls can you ping me over your
portfolio or can you send me some case
studies or can i see some customer
reviews or can i talk to a client that
you've helped well to save the endless
back and forth of emails to each
prospect that asks this to you why not
put it clearly on your website so you
can have things like
results page which might have client
testimonial videos it might have some
actual reviews so maybe you're on g2 or
maybe you're on google reviews and you
have some of those nicely put there
maybe you have some custom reviews and
so basically all the case studies of
different clients key clients that
you've helped the problem they came to
you with
why they chose you
the work you did the results you brought
to the table and why they recommend so a
nice collection of those case studies in
both video
text maybe the reviews themselves format
and what you can also do which is quite
nice is when you mention specific
features on home page on your service
pages etc you can back up each feature
with a relevant tailored review that's
very specific to that so it really
boosts people's confidence and likewise
some other nice ways are on your contact
or your demo page having a key
testimonial review there of someone that
you've helped to basically boost
confidence boost trust
that before someone makes an inquiry
they're really
confident that you can help them and
that's the whole point of social proof
of sharing your results sharing your
case studies you're building trust
you're saving your sales team yourself
time because people can get all that
information they need to be able to
trust you as a vendor to help them from
your website
[Music]
and lastly we've got make it easy for
prospects to speak to your sales team so
often people have their preferred method
of communication whether that is email
cool old school face-to-face zoom
meeting live chat whatever it may be
the point i'm getting at is that not
everyone wants to go down a specific
funnel so if you're only giving people
one option to speak to cells you might
turn other prospects off and they might
head to a competitor so if you give them
different options whether it is a click
to call you in your fixed menu navbar
that's on your mobile and your pc so no
matter where someone is on the page they
can give you a call or if you've got the
fixed book a demo or contact us option
that perhaps opens your contact page
where people can book time on a calendar
so maybe you've got multiple sales reps
and you want the calendar inquiries the
calendar bookings to root through to the
right sales rep instantly you might use
a tool like chili piper you actually
sponsor our show or maybe you want to
give people the option to email direct
so they can just click an email and
draft an email to you or maybe you've
got a live chat so they can have a live
convo with your sales rep the point i'm
getting at is keep give people the
option
to communicate with you on their chosen
channel and that's going to help reduce
that friction reduce frustration and
drive more inquiries longer term to your
team through your website
and there you have it i hope these six
tips have given you some ideas on how
you can reduce friction on your website
and increase that all-important
conversion rate to drive more quality
sales leads your way as always if you
found this episode of use a quick
subscribe if you're on youtube or a
rating if you're on the audio podcast
goes a long way and is very much
appreciated
and i shall see you on the next episode
cheers